---
title: 'Book - Bacteriophages: Biology, Technology, Therapy (Harper et al., 2021)'
tags: []
date: '2024-02-08'
---

### 240208

Bacteriophages, virues that infect bacteria, were considerded as promising therapeutic option for bacterial diseases in 1920-30s. With the advent of antibiotics that can cover wide assortments of bacteria, the effort for developing phage therapy had dwindled. Against the thrill that was given upon antibiotics, it turned out that their uses can give rise to the bacteria resistant to themselves. As a consequence, phage therapy that is very specific to bacterial species and demands very low dosage is getting attention as a new avenue for getting over antimicrobial resistance threats.

Since its discovery, bacteriophage has been a valuable tool for science of molecular biology. It has been used for elucidation of many of fundamental genetics including definitive demonstration that DNA is genetic metrial, identification of genetic codes, etc. More than 90% of knwon bacteriophages belong to the three families known as “tailed phages”, collectively the members of the order `Caudovirales`. They have double-stranded DNA genome and be able to infect wide range both of bacteria and archea.

productive infection / lyctic infection / lysogenic infection

bacteriophages that can enter into lysogenic cycles are called temperate.

Through lysogenic infection, bacterial DNA can be mobilized and transferred to other bacteria genomes. It can be crucial in the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
